---
layout: post
title: "GSoC Week 9-10: Prestige"
---

My college started and Professor gave some urgent work for my Master's Thesis. Hence, I got really busy with that and wasn't able to contribute much for Gsoc work. However, with that sorted now, let's complete LightAndShadow!

### Minimap Integration

There is a minimap module already in place for Terasology. However, it lacks multiplayer support. I wanted to integrate minimap in Light and Shadow, so I worked on modifying its functionality for multiplayer.  
Minimap module has updates the map at each default `update` call. I could have simply scanned for other players through 
`entityManager.getEntitiesWith(AliveCharacterComponent.class)` here but the call has impact on performance as it iterates over entire entity pool. Hence, I am storing a HashSet of entities with `AliveCharacterComponent` and updating it whenever a player dies and whenever a player spawns or respawns. Iterating over this HashSet is quite fast and works like a charm!
  
**PR**: Implement multiplayer support for minimap [#10](https://github.com/Terasology/Minimap/pull/10)

### Towers

I added AlterationEffects and TargetingSystem for Towers. I added a `PlayerManager` System to store and update HashSet of entities with `AliveCharacterComponent` to search for targets. This way all targets can use the same list instead of search for players again and again. For all players in the range, I add an `DamageOverTime` alteration effect. More effects can be added latter. The new commits have been added to the previous PR.
 
**PR**: Basic Implementation for Towers [#1](https://github.com/Terasology/Towers/pull/1)

### What's Next?

I am currently working on loading a custom list to be displayed in Market place. I plan to complete it and Weapons this week.
